Captioning sponsored by
MacNEIL/LEHRER PRODUCTIONS
>> Ifill: THE HOUSE IS POISED TO
PASS A BIPARTISAN BUDGET DEAL
TODAY DESPITE OPPOSITION FROM
CONSERVATIVES.
WE TALK TO ONE OF THE ARCHITECTS
OF THE COMPROMISE, WASHINGTON
DEMOCRATIC SENATOR PATTY MURRAY.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS THURSDAY: A NEW
SERIES OF INTERVIEWS WITH
LAWMAKERS ON GOVERNMENT
SURVEILLANCE.
TONIGHT, MARGARET WARNER TALKS
TO THE CHAIRMAN OF THE HOUSE
INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE, MICHIGAN
REPUBLICAN CONGRESSMAN MIKE
ROGERS.
>> Ifill: AND THE STORY OF THE
FAMILIES OF CHILDREN KILLED IN
NEWTOWN, TURNING THEIR LOSS INTO
A CALL TO CURB GUN VIOLENCE ONE
YEAR AFTER THE TRAGEDY.
>> MY WAY OF GRIEVING IS TO BE
ACTIVE AND TO ENSURE THAT THIS
ISN'T JUST A SENSELESS TRAGEDY.
THIS IS MY WAY OF HONORING DYLAN
AND THE OTHERS THAT DIED, AND
PROVIDING HIM A LEGACY.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: A HARD-FOUGHT DEAL
TO SET THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT'S
SPENDING FOR THE NEXT TWO YEARS
MOVED TOWARD APPROVAL IN
CONGRESS TODAY.
NEWSHOUR CONGRESSIONAL
CORRESPONDENT KWAME HOLMAN HAS
OUR REPORT.
>> THE HOUSE WILL BE IN ORDER.
>> Reporter: THE HOUSE WAS
GAVELED INTO SESSION, INTENT ON
FINISHING THE BUDGET DEAL BEFORE
LEAVING FOR CHRISTMAS.
LAWMAKERS FROM BOTH SIDES SAID
THE AGREEMENT WASN'T PERFECT BUT
A STEP IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION.
WISCONSIN REPUBLICAN PAUL RYAN,
CHAIRING THE HOUSE BUDGET
COMMITTEE, HELPED CRAFT THE
PROPOSAL.
>> THIS IS THE GOVERNMENT,
IT'S ALSO DIVIDED
GOVERNMENT.
AND TO MAKE DIVIDED
GOVERNMENT WORK YOU CAN'T
ASK EACH OTHER TO COMPROMISE
A CORE PRINCIPLES, BECAUSE
WE DON'T DO THAT HERE.
WE ASK EACH OTHER TO FIND
SOME COMMON GROUND TO
ADVANCE THE COMMON GOOD.
AND THAT'S WHAT THIS
AGREEMENT DOES.
>> Reporter: THE DEAL WOULD VOID
$63 BILLION IN AUTOMATIC,
ACROSS-THE-BOARD SPENDING CUTS.
IN THEIR PLACE, $85 BILLION IN
TARGETED CUTS, PLUS INCREASED
REVENUES-- INCLUDING HIGHER
AIRLINE SECURITY FEES-- TO BE
ACHIEVED OVER THE NEXT DECADE.
THE BILL DOES NOT EXTEND
UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS FOR THE
LONG-TERM JOBLESS, TO THE DISMAY
OF MANY DEMOCRATIC LAWMAKERS.
JIM McGOVERN OF MASSACHUSETTS:
>> LET'S NOT TURN OUR BACKS ON
THE MOST VULNERABLE IN THIS
COUNTRY.
IT HAS BECOME UNFASHIONABLE TO
IN THIS CONGRESS TO WORRY ABOUT
THE POOR.
IT HAS BECOME UNFASHIONABLE TO
STAND UP FOR THESE PROGRAMS JUST
TO HELP PEOPLE GET BY.
THIS IS THE HOLIDAY SEASON.
HAVE A HEART!
>> Reporter: REPUBLICANS ARGUED
JOBLESS BENEFITS SHOULD BE
HANDLED SEPARATELY.
GEORGIA'S ROB WOODALL:
>> THE GENTLEMAN KNOWS THAT
ANYTHING SHORT OF A BIPARTISAN,
BICAMERAL SOLUTION IS
SHOWBOATING FOR THOSE FOLKS WHO
ARE HURTING, NOT DOING A DAGGUM
THING TO HELP THEM.
WE DON'T NEED SHOWBOATING IN
THIS INSTITUTION, MR. SPEAKER.
WE NEED RESULTS.
>> Reporter: REPUBLICANS ALSO
FACED PRESSURE FROM OUTSIDE
CONSERVATIVE GROUPS OPPOSED TO
THE DEAL, BUT, FOR A SECOND DAY,
SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER REBUKED
THEM.
>> I CAME HERE TO FIGHT FOR A
SMALLER, LESS COSTLY, MORE
IT'S NOT EVERYTHING I WANTED,
BUT WHEN GROUPS COME OUT AND
CRITICIZE AN AGREEMENT THEY'VE
NEVER SEEN, YOU BEGIN TO WONDER
JUST HOW CREDIBLE THOSE ACTIONS
ARE.
>> Reporter: THE SENATE IS
EXPECTED TO TAKE UP THE BUDGET
MEASURE NEXT WEEK BEFORE LEAVING
FOR THE HOLIDAYS.
>> Woodruff: THE SENATE HELD A
MARATHON ALL-NIGHT SESSION AND
CONTINUED WITHOUT RESPITE TODAY
AS A BATTLE OVER PRESIDENTIAL
NOMINEES PLAYED OUT.
REPUBLICANS SLOWED THINGS DOWN
IN RETALIATION FOR NEW CURBS ON
THEIR POWER TO FILIBUSTER, BUT
DEMOCRATS PUSHED THROUGH MORE
FEDERAL JUDGE NOMINEES ANYWAY.
WESTERN-BACKED REBELS IN SYRIA
ARE URGING THE U.S. AND BRITAIN
TO RESTORE THE FLOW OF NON-
LETHAL AID.
IT WAS CUT THIS WEEK WHEN
ISLAMIST FACTIONS CAPTURED
STORAGE WAREHOUSES.
BUT DEFENSE SECRETARY CHUCK
HAGEL PROMISED TODAY THE U.S.
WILL NOT LEAVE THE MODERATE
OPPOSITION IN THE LURCH.
WE'LL EXORE PLTHE PLIGHT OF PRO-
WESTERN REBELS RIGHT AFTER THE
NEWS SUMMARY.
THE U.S. TODAY BLACKLISTED MORE
THAN A DOZEN COMPANIES AND
INDIVIDUALS AND FROZE THEIR
ASSETS, FOR EVADING SANCTIONS
AGAINST IRAN.
THE CRACKDOWN CAME AS THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION TRIES TO SHOW IT
IS KEEPING PRESSURE ON IRAN EVEN
AS IT EASES SOME SANCTIONS AS
PART OF A NUCLEAR DEAL.
THE TREASURY DEPARTMENT'S
SANCTIONS CHIEF, DAVID COHEN,
TOOK THAT MESSAGE TO A SENATE
HEARING.
>> WE KNOW THERE MAY BE S
GOOD TIME TO TEST OUR
RESOLVE.
I WANT TO BE CLEAR.
WE ARE WATCHING CLOSELY.
AND WE ARE PREPARED TO TAKE
ACTION AGAINST ANYONE
ANYWHERE WHO VIOLATES OR
ATTEMPTS TO VIOLATE OUR
SANCTIONS.
>> Woodruff: THE ADMINISTRATION
HAS ALSO URGED CONGRESS TO HOLD
OFF IMPOSING ANY NEW SANCTIONS
ON IRAN, FOR NOW.
TODAY, DEMOCRATIC SENATOR TIM
JOHNSON, CHAIRING THE BANKING
COMMITTEE, SAID HE AGREES
DIPLOMACY NEEDS TIME TO PLAY
OUT.
KIM JONG-UN FORMER MENTOR
WAS EXECUTED, CONSIDERED THE
SECOND MOST POWERFUL
OFFICIALS IN THE COMMUNIST
STATE BUT WAS ARRESTED IN
RECENT DAYS ON CHARGES OF
CORRUPTION, GAMBLING AND
WOMANIZING.
TODAY'S ANNOUNCEMENT BRANDED
HIM A TRAITER.
THE GOVERNMENT OF UKRAINE NOW
SAYS IT WILL SIGN A LANDMARK
TRADE DEAL WITH THE EUROPEAN
UNION, AFTER ALL.
PRESIDENT VIKTOR YANUKOVYCH
SHELVED THE AGREEMENT LAST MONTH
IN FAVOR OF CLOSER TIES WITH
RUSSIA, BUT HIS DEPUTY PRIME
MINISTER SAID TODAY THAT THE
E.U. IS PROMISING ADDITIONAL
AID.
MEANWHILE, IN A TELEVISED
SPEECH, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT
VLADIMIR PUTIN SAID HE WANTS
WHAT'S BEST FOR UKRAINE.
>> I VERY MUCH HOPE THAT ALL
POLITICAL FORCES IN UKRAINE
WILL BE ABLE TO REACH A DEAL
IN THE INTERESTS OF THE
UKRAINIAN PEOPLE AND SOLVE
ALL EXISTING PROBLEMS.
>> Woodruff: THE ISSUE HAS
SPARKED SWEEPING ANTI-GOVERNMENT
PROTESTS IN UKRAINE.
THOUSANDS TURNED OUT IN KIEV
AGAIN TODAY, DEMANDING A SHIFT
AWAY FROM RUSSIA AND TOWARD THE
E.U.
IN THAILAND, ANTI-GOVERNMENT
PROTESTERS CUT OFF POWER AND
WATER TO THE PRIME MINISTER'S
OFFICE COMPOUND IN A BID TO
FORCE HER RESIGNATION.
YINGLUCK SHINAWATRA WAS NOT AT
HER OFFICE WHEN THE
DEMONSTRATORS REMOVED BARBED
WIRE AND CLIMBED OVER THE
COMPOUND'S FENCE.
THEY DEMANDED THAT POLICE LEAVE
THE SITE.
THE PRIME MINISTER HAS ALREADY
CALLED NEW ELECTIONS, WHICH THE
PROTESTERS REJECT.
NOW, SHE PLANS TALKS WITH
VARIOUS FACTIONS ON SUNDAY.
A MOB IN THE CENTRAL AFRICAN
REPUBLIC WENT ON A RAMPAGE
TODAY, HUNTING FOR MUSLIMS.
THEIR INTENDED VICTIMS WERE
HOLED UP IN A CHURCH COMPOUND IN
BANGUI, THE MAINLY CHRISTIAN
CAPITAL CITY.
AFRICAN UNION PEACEKEEPERS FIRED
INTO THE AIR TO BREAK UP THE
CROWD.
IT HAPPENED JUST DAYS AFTER MORE
THAN 500 PEOPLE DIED IN THE
CAPITAL, IN SECTARIAN FIGHTING.
MEANWHILE, THE U.S. MILITARY
BEGAN AIRLIFTING TROOPS FROM
BURUNDI TO BOLSTER THE
PEACEKEEPING FORCE.
FOR A SECOND DAY, THOUSANDS OF
MOURNERS PAID FINAL RESPECTS TO
NELSON MANDELA IN PRETORIA,
SOUTH AFRICA.
THEY FILED PAST AS THE COUNTRY'S
FIRST BLACK PRESIDENT LAY IN
STATE.
HE'S TO BE BURIED SUNDAY IN THE
VILLAGE WHERE HE SPENT HIS
CHILDHOOD.
MEANWHILE, THE MAN ACCUSED OF
FAKING THE SIGN LANGUAGE
INTERPRETATION FOR TUESDAY'S
MEMORIAL SERVICE WAS HEARD FROM.
HE SAID HE SUFFERS FROM
SCHIZOPHRENIA AND STARTED
HALLUCINATING AS THE SERVICE
BEGAN.
>> I SEE ENGINES COMING TO
THE STADIUM AND IMMEDIATELY
I SEE ENGINES COMING TO THE
STADIUM.
I START REALIZING THAT THE
PROBLEMS HERE, AND THE
PROBLEM, I DON'T KNOW OF
THIS PROBLEM, HOW WILL IT
COME.
>> Woodruff: THE MAN SAID HE
FEARED HE MIGHT BECOME
VIOLENT STANDING JUST A FEW
FEET FROM PRESIDENT OBAMA
AND OTHER WORLD LEADERS.
THE SOUTH AFRICAN GOVERNMENT
ADMITTED THAT HE WAS NOT A
PROFESSIONAL INTERPRETER.
JPMORGAN CHASE MAY PAY $2
BILLION IN PENALTIES
J.P. MORGAN CHASE MAY PAY $2
BILLION IN PENALTIES AND FACE
CRIMINAL CHARGES FOR NOT TAKING
ACTION AGAINST ROGUE FINANCIER
BERNIE MADOFF.
THE "NEW YORK TIMES" REPORTED
THE TENTATIVE DEAL TODAY.
FEDERAL AGENCIES SAY THE BANK
"TURNED A BLIND EYE" TO MADOFF'S
PONZI SCHEME.
HE'S SERVING A 150-YEAR PRISON
TERM FOR DEFRAUDING THOUSANDS OF
INVESTORS.
ON WALL REETST TODAY, STOCKS
SLUMPED OVER RENEWED CONCERNS
THAT THE FEDERAL RESERVE MAY
START WINDING DOWN ITS ECONOMIC
STIMULUS EFFORTS.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 104 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
15,739.
THE NASDAQ FELL FIVE POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 3,998.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
THE DECLINE OF MODERATE REBELS
IN SYRIA; AN ARCHITECT OF THE
BUDG COMETPROMISE; EXTENDING
DEADLINES TO ENSURE AMERICANS
GET HEALTH INSURANCE; DO THERE
NEED TO BE NEWS LAWS TO CURB
N.S.A. SPYING?; AND THE FAMILIES
OF NEWTOWN, ONE YEAR LATER.
>> Ifill: NOW, TO SYRIA.
IN THE PAST WEEK, WE HAVE TAKEN
A CLOSE LOOK AT THE WEAKENING OF
THE FREE-SYRIAN ARMY AND THE
RISE OF ISLAMIST FIGHTERS IN THE
WAR-TORN COUNTRY.
NOW, AS THE U.S. AND BRITAIN
PULL BACK, THERE ARE SERIOUS
QUESTIONS ABOUT WHETHER
MODERATES FIGHTING TO OVERTHROW
PRESIDENT BASHAR AL-ASSAD CAN
SURVIVE.
>> WHAT HAS OURRECCD HERE IN THE
LAST COUPLE OF DAYS IS A CLEAR
REFLECTION ON HOW COMPLICATED
AND DANGEROUS THIS SITUATION IS
AND HOW UNPREDICTABLE IT IS.
>> Ifill: DEFENSE SECRETARY
CHUCK HAGEL SUMMED THINGS UP
TODAY AFTER THE U.S. AND BRITAIN
CUT OFF NON-LETHAL AID TO
WESTERN-BACKED REBELS IN
NORTHERN SYRIA.
THE ACTION CAME AFTER OTHER
INSURGENTS FROM THE ISLAMIC
FRONT SEIZED WEAPONS WAREHOUSES
IN BAB-AL-HAWA, NEAR THE TURKISH
BORDER.
HAGEL SAID U.S. MILITARY GEAR,
FROM SUPPLY TRUCKS TO
COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, MUST
NOT FALL INTO THE ISLAMISTS'
HANDS.
>> BUT THIS IS A PROBLEM... I
MEAN, WHAT HAS OCCURRED HERE, A
BIG PROBLEM.
AND WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO WORK
THROUGH IT AND MANAGE THROUGH IT
WITH GENERAL IDRIS AND MODERATE
OPPOSITION.
>> Ifill: GENERAL SALIM IDRIS
COMMANDS THE WESTERN-BACKED
REBELS, BUT HE'S BEEN FORCED TO
FLEE SYRIA IN RECENT DAYS.
TODAY, THOUGH, HIS SUPPORTERS
INSISTED HE INVITED THE ISLAMIC
FRONT TO INTERVENE AND TAKE THE
WAREHOUSES BACK FROM AN AL QAEDA
GROUP KNOWN AS THE ISLAMIC STATE
OF IRAQ AND AL-SHAM, OR "ISIS."
>> S.M.C. WAREHOUSES WERE RAN
OVER BY ISIS, BY THE ISLAMIC
STATE, THREE, FOUR DAYS AGO.
AS A RESULT OF THAT, GENERAL
SELIM IDRIS SENT A REQUEST TO
THE ISLAMIC FRONT TO HELP
PROTECT THESE WAREHOUSES.
>> Ifill: THE INTERNAL
SPLINTERING AMONG REBEL GROUPS
HAS MADE IT INCREASINGLY
DIFFICULT FOR THE U.S. TO FIND A
RELIABLE PARTNER TO FORCE SYRIAN
PRESIDENT BASHAR AL ASSAD FROM
OFFICE.
ARIZONA SENATOR JOHN McCAIN SAID
TODAY THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION
IS TO BLAME, SAYING N A
STATEMENT:
THE LATEST DEVELOPMENTS COME
JUST ONE MONTH BEFORE A SYRIA
PEACE CONFERENCE IS SCHEDULED TO
BEGIN IN SWITZERLAND.
SO, MIGHT EVIDENCE OF A WEAKENED
OPPOSITION DERAIL THOSE GENEVA
PEACE TALKS?
FOR THAT, I'M JOINED BY: MURHAF
JOUEJATI, AN OPPOSITION ACTIVIST
AND PROFESSOR OF MIDDLE EAST
STUDIES AT THE NATIONAL DEFENSE
UNIVERSITY IN WASHINGTON-- HE
WAS BORN IN SYRIA; AND JOSHUA
LANDIS, DIRECTOR OF THE CENTER
FOR MIDDLE EAST STUDIES AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA AND
EDITOR OF THE WEB SITE "SYRIA
COMMENT."
MR. JOUEJATI, WAS
THE ADMINISTRATION, WAS THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION WISE TO
PULL BACK?
>> IT WAS NOT WISE TO
PULLBACK.
IT SHOULD REVERSE THE TREND
THAT HAS BEEN TAKING PLACE
FOR SOME WEEKS NOW WHICH IS
THE WEAKENING OF THE
MODERATE REBEL FORCES AND
THE RISE OF THE EXTREMIST
FORCES.
AND THE WAY TO REVERSE THIS
IS TO SUPPORT THE MODERATE
FORCES.
THESE ARE THE ALLIES OF THE
YOONTEDED STATES.
THESE ARE THE DEMOCRATIC
FORCES CALLING FOR DEMOCRACY
IN SYRIA.
SO AGAIN, IT IS AN
UNFORTUNATE DECISION THAT
WAS MADE BY THE UNITED
STATES, ALTHOUGH IT MAY BE
UNDERSTANDABLE GIVEN THE
NERVOUSNESS OF THE U.S. WITH
REGARD TO THE EXTREMIST
GROUPS IN SYRIA.
>> Ifill: WITH THE
SPLINTERING WITHIN THE
OPPOSITION FORCES THEMSELVES.
>> CORRECT, THE OPPOSITION
FORCES ARE MODERATE TO LESS
MODERATE, TO RADICAL.
AND IT IS THE MODERATE
FORCES WE SHOULD CONCENTRATE
ON AND SUPPORT IN VIEW OF
DEMOCRATIZING SYRIA.
>> Ifill: WHAT IS YOUR TAKE
ON THE ADMINISTRATIONS TAKE.
>> I THINK IT IS VINDICATION
OF OBAMA'S POLICY OF CAREFUL,
TRYING TO STAY OUT OF SYRIA.
BECAUSE THERE ARE NOW MANY
FACTIONS IN SYRIA FIGHTING,
WE SEE THIS AS NOT JUST A
WAR BETWEEN ASSAD AND
REBELS.
IT'S BEN ISLAMIST, AL QAEDA,
SOME MODERATE FACTIONS.
THE KURDS HAVE THE NORTHEAST,
KNOWN THE NORTHEAST.
IF THE UNITED STATES PICKS,
TRIES TO PICK A SIDE AND
MAKE A WINNER, IT IS GOING
TO HAVE TO FIGHT ON MANY
DIFFERENT FRONTS THIS IS
SOMETHING THE AMERICAN
PUBLIC DOESN'T HAVE THE
ENERGY OR THE MONEY TO SPEND
ON.
AND MOST OF YOUR SHOW HERE
IS ABOUT BUDGET PROBLEMS IN
WASHINGTON.
THIS IS A VERY EXPENSIVE AND
DIFFICULT ENDEAVOR.
AMERICA'S CANNOT DO IT.
>> Ifill: YOU HEARD WHAT
JOHN McCAIN SAID WHICH IS
THE PROBLEM HERE IS THE
UNITED STATES DIDN'T BRING
ENOUGH TO THIS FIGHT.
>> YOU KNOW H THIS IS
WHAT-- LOOK IT, WE WENT INTO
IRAQ AND IN THREE WEEKS WE
DESTROYED SADDAM HUSSEIN,
CRIMINALIZE THE BATH PARTY,
GOT RID OF THE ARMY AND
HANDED OVER THE COUNTRY TO
THE REBELS THAT WE WERE
SUPPORTING, OR THE
OPPOSITION WE WERE
SUPPORTING WITHOUT THEM
HAVING TO FIRE A SHOT.
AND WHAT HAPPENED?
OVER THE NEXT THREE YEARS
THE COUNTRY SPLIT INTO CIVIL
WAR.
EVERYBODY RADICALLIZED AND
THE AMERICAN ARMY WAS
STRAINED TO ITS VERY CORE
TRYING TO HOLD THAT COUNTRY
TOGETHER.
WE SPENT OVER $3 TRILLION TO
DO IT AND IT'S BARELY SIX,
7,000 PEOPLE WERE KILLED IN
POLITICAL VIOLENCE IN IRAQ
LAST YEAR.
YOU KNOW, EVERYBODY TOLD US
IRAQ WOULD BE A CAKE
WALKMENT PEOPLE WOULD KISS
US.
AND YOU KNOW THE PUN DIRTS
GOT IRAQ TOTALLY WRONG.
AND I THINK THEY'RE GETTING
SYRIA WRONG TOO.
SYRIA WAS GOING TO LEAD
TOWARD ISLAMISM JUST THE WAY
EVERY OTHER ARAB SPRING
COUNTRY HAS LEAD TOWARD
ISLAMISM.
IT IS THE DOMINANT-- .
>> Ifill: I HAVE TO LET
PROFESSOR JOUEJATI RESPOND
TO THAT.
>> IF THE UNITED STATES DOES
NOT SUPPORT THE MODERATES IN
SYRIA, YES, THE ISLAMISTS
WILL GAIN ITS UPPER HAND.
AND IT WILL BE A BATTLE
BETWEEN A DICTATOR WHO HAS
KILLED 126,000 OF HIS PEOPLE,
WHO HAS GASSED HIS PEOPLE.
IT WILL BE A BATTLE BETWEEN
HIM AND THE EXTREMISTS.
AT ANY RATE, THE UNITED
STATES, IF IT DOES NOT
SUPPORT THE DEMOCRATIC
FORCES IN SYRIA, THE
MODERATE FORCES, THAT MEANS
IT IS GOING TO HAVE TO
INTERVENE LATER ON, AT A
TIME NOT OF ITS CHOOSING.
>> Ifill: DO YOU ASSUME THAT
IN PULLING BACK THIS
NONLETHAL AID THERE IS STILL
HUMANITARIAN AID GOING ON.
APPARENTLY THERE IS A SMALL
COVERT ARMS SALES OR ARMS
TRANSIT THAT IS STILL GOING
ON.
DO YOU INTERPRET THAT AS THE
FIRST STEP TO THE UNITED
STATES GETTING OUT OF THE
WAY AND LETING AADD IS
A-- ASSAD STAY IN OFFICE.
>> THAT WOULD BE DANGEROU
DANGEROUS-- DANGEROUS FOR
THE UNITED STATES THAT IS
CALLING FOR ASSAD OUSTER,
THAT HAS DRAWN RED LINES
BECAUSE OF THE CHEMICAL
WEAPONS HE HAS USED TO
SUDDENLY REVERSE ITS
POSITION.
IT WOULD TARNISH THE
CREDIBILITY AND THE
REPUTATION OF THE UNITED
STATES.
THE UNITED STATES HAS
NATIONAL SECURITY INTERESTS
TO ADVANCE HERE, ITS OWN.
AND IT CAN ONLY DO THAT
THROUGH THE DEMOCRATIC
FORCES IN SYRIA.
NOT ALLOWING ASSAD TO RULE
ANY MORE.
HE IS A DICTATOR THAT HAS
KILLED 126,000 OF HIS
PEOPLE.
HE IS A MAN WHO HAS MADE 7
MILLION REFUGEES.
AND IN PROPORTION TO THE
UNITED STATES T THAT IS A
HUNDRED MILLION AMERICAN
REFUGEES.
>> Ifill: SO JOSHUA LANDIS,
FIRST OF ALL, DO YOU THINK
THIS FIRST STEP IS THE A
PERMANENT STEP AWAY OF U.S.
INVOLVEMENT LEAVING ASSAD IN
POWER.
AND WHAT IS THE OTHER OPTION
FOR THE U.S. HERE?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, MOST
PEOPLE IN WASHINGTON, MOST
OF THE OFFICIAL
WASHINGTONIANS ARE SAYING
THAT ASSAD HAS TO STEP DOWN.
BUT THERE'S GOING TO BE A
POLITICAL SOLUTION.
AND YET NO ONE HAS A PLAN TO
MAKE ASSAD STEP DOWN.
HE SAYS HE'S NOT GOING TO DO
IT.
WHO IS GOING TO MAKE HIM
STEP DOWN.
NOB IS GOING TO DO IT UNLES
UNLESS-- BE IN WILL DO IT
UNLESS IT'S AMERICAN
MARINES.
AND EVERYTHING POINTS THAT
OBAMA IS TO THE GOING TO DO
THAT.
IF YOU ARE GOING TO GET A
CEASE-FIRE IN A COUNTRY ARE
YOU HAVE TO HAVE PEOPLE FROM
ASSAD SIDE AND PEOPLE FROM
THE REBEL SIDE SITTING DOWN
TOGETHER.
ANDS THIS'S GOING TO REQUIRE
AT GENEVA THAT THE SAUDIS
AND IRANIANS, THE RUSSIANS
AND THE AMERICANS AND THE
TURKS ALL COME TOGETHER AND
DECIDE THAT THEY'RE NOT
GOING TO FUND THEIR FACTIONS
AND BEGIN TO COME UP WITH
SOME KIND OF ROAD MAP THAT
THEY CAN SEE FOR HOW THEY
CAN LIMIT THE DAMAGE, STOP
ARMS FROM FLOWING IN, STOP
MONEY FROM FLOWING IN ON
BOTH SIDE, BOTH TO ASSAD, TO
THE REBELS.
AND THEY'RE GOING HAVE TO BE
CEASE-FIRE LINES.
AND WHAT THAT ULTIMATELY
MEANS, I DON'T KNOW.
BUT IT'S TO THE GOING TO BE
DEMOCRATS WINNING IN SYRIA.
THEY HAVE SHOWN THEMSELVES
TO BE WAY TOO WEAK.
AND THERE IS GOING TO BE A
MESSY PROCESS, THAT
HOPEFULLY OVER TIME ONE CAN
DEVELOP TOWARDS A HAPPIER
CONSTITUTIONAL SYRIA.
BUT IN THE MEANTIME, WE'RE
GOING TO HAVE TO DEAL WITH A
LOT LESS THAN THAT.
>> Ifill: JOSHUA LANDIS,
PROFESSOR JOUEJATI JUST SAID
THIS HAS TO BE WORKED OUT AT
THE NEGOTIATING TABLE IN
AGAIN EF', DOES TODAY'S
WITHDRAWAL IN THE ONLY OF
THE U.S. BUT BRITISH
INVOLVEMENT, DOES THAT MAKE
THAT MORE OR LESS LIKELY TO
HAPPEN.
>> LESS LIKELY.
IT SENDS THE WRONG MESSAGE
TO EVERYBODY.
IT SENDS THE MESSAGE TO
ASSAD THAT THE AMERICANS ARE
WEAK AND ARE NOT GOING TO
SUPPLY THEIR ALLIES.
IT SENDS A MESSAGE TO THE
RADICALS OF THE SAME THING.
AND IT SENDS A MESSAGE TO
THE DEMOCRATIC FORCES THAT
THE UNITED STATES IS NOT
GOING TO BE THE ALLY WE
THOUGHT IT WAS IN PURSUING
DEMOCRACY.
WHAT IS GOING TO HAPPEN IN
GENEVA IS THAT ASSAD, GIVEN
TODAY'S DECISION, IS GOING
TO MAKE EVEN LESS
CONCESSIONS THAT HE WOULD
HAVE OTHERWISE.
>> Ifill: MURHAF JOUEJATI
AND JOSHUA LANDIS, THANK YOU
VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: WE TAKE A SECOND
LOOK AT THE BUDGET DEAL WORKING
ITS WAY THROUGH CONGRESS WITH
SENATE BUDGET COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN
PATTY MURRAY.
SHE SERVED AS THE LEAD
NEGOTIATOR ON BEHALF OF
DEMOCRATS IN REACHING AN
AGREEMENT.
SENATOR MURRAY, THANK YOU
FOR JOINING US.
AMERICANS HAVE SPENT THE
LAST FEW YEARS WATCHING
NOTHING BUT GRIDLOCK AND
FIGHTING IN WASHINGTON.
WHY SHOULD THEY BELIEVE
THIS-- THIS BUDGET IS A GOOD
DEAL OR EVEN THAT IT
MATTERS?
>> BECAUSE THE BUDGET
AGREEMENT THAT CHAIRMAN RYAN
AND I HAVE PUT TOGETHER
BRINGS CERTAINTY TO THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE, THEIR
FAMILIES, OUR BUSINESSES AND
OUR ECONOMY FOR THE NEXT TWO
YEARS.
IT SAYS THAT WE AGREE ON
WHAT OUR BUDGET NUMBERS ARE.
WE PLACED SOME OF THE
DAMAGING CONSEQUENCES OF
SEQUESTER THAT WERE HURTING
OUR ECONOMY AND HURTING
FAMILIES.
AND WE DO A REALLY GOOD STEP
FORWARD IN REACHING A
BIPARTISAN AGREEMENT IN A
DIVIDED COUNTRY.
I THINK THAT IS A REALLY
IMPORTANT STEP FORWARD FOR
OUR NATION'S FINANCES.
BUT ALSO FOR OUR NATION'S
TRUST OF THIS DEMOCRACY.
>> WE KNOW THERE WERE A
NUMBER OF THINGS THAT
MEMBERS OF YOUR OWN PARTY,
THE DEMOCRATS WANTED IN THIS
AGREEMENT, AMONG OTHER
THINGS THEY WANTED THERE TO
BE EXTENDED INSURANCE FOR
THE LONG TERM UNEMPLOYED,
1.3 MILLION PEOPLE WHO HAVE
BEEN OUT OF WORK.
HOW HARD WAS IT FOR TO YOU
ACCEPT A DEAL THAT DID NOT
INCLUDE THAT?
>> WELL, WHEN CONGRESSMAN
RYAN AND I BEGAN WORK ON THE
BUDGET, THE EXTENSION OF THE
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE WAS
NOT EXPECTED TO BE PART OF
OUR BUDGET AGREEMENT.
BUT BECAUSE WE ARE NOW AT
THE YEAR'S END WITH VERY
LITTLE TIME LEFT, WE HAD
HOPED AT THE END OF THE TIME
TO ADD TO IT.
WE WERE NOT ABLE TO DO THAT.
THAT'S SOMETHING I WANTED TO
DO, SOMETHING I BELIEVE WE
WILL DO.
THE LEADER OF THE SENATE HAS
TOLD US THAT WE WILL TAKE
THAT UP VERY QUICKLY, AS
SOON AS WE GET BACK, RIGHT
AFTER THE FIRST OF THE YEAR
AND TRY AND PASS THAT BILL.
I STRONGLY SUPPORT THAT.
>> AND AS I UNDERSTAND IT
THE BILL ALSO EXTENDS CUTS
TO MEDICARE PROVIDERS FOR AN
ADDITIONAL TWO YEARS.
HOW COMFORTABLE ARE YOU WITH
THAT?
>> WELL, THIS IS AN
AGREEMENT THAT CONGRESSMAN
RYAN AND I CAME TOGETHER ON.
THERE ARE PARTS OF IT I AM
NOT HAPPY ABOUT.
THERE ARE PARTS HE'S NOT
HAPPY ABOUT.
BUT THAT'S WHAT COMPROMISES
TAKE.
IT TAKES ALL OF US
SWALLOWING HARD IN A TOUGH
ECONOMY, WHEN WE WANT TO GET
PEOPLE BACK TO WORK AND WE
WANT TO BRING CERTAINTY AND
WE WANT TO SHOW THAT A
DEMOCRACY CAN WORK.
SOMETIMES YOU HAVE TO SAY
OKAY TO THINGS YOU DON'T
REALLY LIKE.
THAT'S WHAT THIS AGREEMENT
IS ABOUT.
BUT THAT'S HOW WE HAVE TO
PUT AGREEMENTS TOGETHER
TODAY.
>> Woodruff: I HEAR YOU AT
THE SAME TIME GIVEN HOW HARD
IT WAS, AND FORGIVE THE
SIREN THERE, GIVEN HOW HARD
IT WAS, SENATOR, TO PUT THIS
SMALLER DEAL TOGETHER, DO
YOU REALLY BELIEVE THAT IT'S
POSSIBLE TO DO A MUCH BIGGER
DEAL THAT ADDRESSES THE MAIN
DRIVERS OF THE DEFICIT,
ADDRESSES THINGS LIKE TAX
REFORM?
>> YOU KNOW, JUDY, THAT'S
ACTUALLY A DISCUSSION THAT
CONGRESSMAN RYAN AND I
STARTED OUT WITH WHEN WE
WERE FIRST GIVE THEN TASK TO
FIND AN AGREEMENT.
BOTH OF US AGREED THAT OUR
CONGRESS WAS BROKEN.
THAT WE WERE UNABLE TO FIND
AGREEMENT ANYWHERE.
AND ONE OF THE THINGS WE
NEEDED TO SHOW IS THAT WE
CAN FIND AGREEMENT.
AND IF WE TOOK OFF THE BIG
ISSUES RIGHT NOW AND FOCUSED
ON WHAT WE COULD AGREE ON
TODAY, WE WOULD SHOW AND
BRING BACK RESPECT AND TRUST
OF EACH OTHER, SO THAT WE
CAN DEAL WITH THE BIGGER
PROBLEMS, WHETHER IT'S TAX
REFORM OR ENTITLEMENTS.
OR WHETHER IT'S IMMIGRATION
REFORM OR WHETHER IT'S THE
FARM BILL.
OR ANY OF THE CHALLENGES WE
HAVE.
WE NEEDED TO REESTABLISH THE
TRUST IN OURSELVES, IN
CONGRESS.
BUT ALSO REESTABLISH THE
TRUST TO THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
THAT WE CAN DO THE JOB WE
WERE SENT HERE TO DO.
THAT'S WHAT WE HOPE THIS
AGREEMENT PROVIDES, IS A
PATHWAY FOR THE FUTURE.
>> Woodruff: AND YET WE'RE
WATCHING A TREMENDOUS AMOUNT
OF BACKLASH AGAINST
CONGRESSMAN RYAN IN
PARTICULAR AMONG
CONSERVATIVES IN HIS PARTY.
SOME OF THEM THEY'RE NOT
ONLY CRITICIZING HIM, SOME
OF THEM ARE CALLING HIM THE
EQUIVALENT OF A TRAITER.
DOES THAT SPELL A GOOD
CLIMATE FOR REACHING A
BIGGER AGREEMENT IN THE
FUTURE, DO YOU THINK?
>> WELL, FIRST OF ALL, THE
HOUSE IS PASSING THEIR
BUDGET RIGHT NOW WITH A VERY
STRONG MAJORITY OF
REPUBLICANS AND DEMOCRATS.
I THINK THAT GIVES EVERYBODY
THE BACKING TO RECOGNIZE
THAT YOU DON'T HAVE TO KILL
THE NEGOTIATOR.
YOU DON'T HAVE TO KILL
COMPROMISE.
THAT IN THIS COUNTRY, IF YOU
SUPPORT SOMETHING THAT MOVES
US FORWARD, REGARDLESS OF
THAT YOU MAY NOT LIKE SOME
OF IT, YOU MAY NOT LOVE T
BUT IT MOVES US FORWARD, IS
EXACTLY HOW A DIVIDED
CONGRESS IS SUPPOSED TO
WORK.
I HOPE THE CREDENCE OF THAT
ALLOWS US TO GET THE LARGER
ISSUES WE NEED TO FACE.
>> Woodruff: AND IN FACT WE
CAN REPORT, SENATOR, THAT
THE HOUSE HAS PASSED THE
BUDGET OVERWHELMINGLY.
WE DON'T HAVE THE FINAL
NUMBERS YET.
BUT WE KNOW THAT IT'S
PASSED.
TELL US HOW HARD IT WAS OR
WAS IT FOR YOU AND
CONGRESSMAN RYAN, YOU COME
FROM VERY DIFFERENT ENDS OF
THE IDEA LOGICAL POLITICAL
SPECTRUM TO COME TO TRUST
EACH OTHER.
>> WELL, I THINK WE BOTH
CAME INTO THE NEGOTIATING
ROOM WITH THE SAME SENSE OF
FRUSTRATION; THAT OUR
COUNTRY WAS BROKEN, OUR
DEMOCRACY WAS BROKEN.
SOMETHING WE BOTH BELIEVE IN
WHICH IS THE LEGISLATIVE
PROCESS WAS BROKEN.
AND WE HAD AN OPPORTUNITY TO
HEAL THAT.
AND IF WE WORKED THROUGH
THIS NEGOTIATION ON THE
TOUGH DAYS WHEN WE WERE
REALLY SAYING HOW ARE WE
GOING TO GET PASSED SOME
ISSUES, WE REMINDED
OURSELVES OF THAT AND THAT
ALLOWED US TO MAKE SOME
TOUGH DECISIONS AND GET TO
WHERE WE ARE TODAY.
>> Woodruff: HOW DID YOU
COME TO TRUST ONE ANOTHER?
>> WELL, CONGRESSMAN RYAN
AND I COME FROM VERY
DIFFERENT POLITICAL
SPECTRUMS.
AND WE BOTH AGREED AT THE
BEGINNING THAT WE COULD SIT
IN A ROOM AND DEBATE THE HOT
POLITICAL TOPICS OF THE DAY.
OR WE COULD SET THOSE ASIDE
AND FIND OUT WHERE WE AGREE.
WE STARTED OUT HAVING
BREAKFAST MANY MONTHS AGO
HERE IN THE CONGRESS AND
TALKED ABOUT OUR FAMILIES
AND WHAT MOTIVATED US AND
WHAT WE CARED ABOUT.
WE HAVE SPENT TIME JABBING
EACH OTHER ON OUR FOOTBALL
TEAMS.
AND OUR FISHING EXPERTISE.
AND HAVE EARNED WILL, YOU
KNOW, TO TRUST AND RESPECT
EACH OTHER.
I DON'T AGREE WITH
CONGRESSMAN RYAN ON
EVERYTHING.
BUT I DO RESPECT HIM FOR
WHAT HE BELIEVES IN.
I THINK HE WOULD SAY THE
SAME FOR ME.
>> Woodruff: AND DO YOU
THINK THIS IS A MODEL FOR
FUTURE, FOR CONGRESS TO BE
ABLE TO COME TOGETHER ON
OTHER TOUGH ISSUES LIKE
IMMIGRATION, LIKE-- GO
AHEAD.
>> THIS IS A MODEL FOR HOW A
DEMOCRACY WORKS WHEN YOU
HAVE A DIVIDED GOVERNMENT.
YOU FIND PEOPLE THAT YOU CAN
TRUST.
YOU SET ASIDE THE HOT
ISSUES.
AND YOU FIND COMMON GROUND.
THAT'S WHAT OUR
FRAMER-- FRAMERS EXPECTSED
WHEN YOU SET THIS UP.
YOU COME TO CONGRESS, YOU
FIGHT FOR WHAT YOU BELIEVE
IN.
BUT AT THE END OF THE DAY
YOU HAVE TO MAKE THIS
COUNTRY WORK.
THAT'S WHAT LEADERS ARE
SUPPOSED TO DO.
THAT'S WHAT CONGRESS IS
AND I THINK THAT'S WHAT THIS
SUPPOSED TO DO.
BUDGET AGREEMENT IS TRYING
AND I THINK THAT'S WHAT THIS
TO SET AN EXAMPLE FOR.
BUDGET AGREEMENT IS TRYING
>> Woodruff: BUT THAT WASN'T
TO SET AN EXAMPLE FOR.
HAPPENING BEFORE THIS.
>> Woodruff: BUT THAT WASN'T
>> NO, WE HAVE SPENT TOO
HAPPENING BEFORE THIS.
MUCH TIME IN OUR OWN CORNERS
>> NO, WE HAVE SPENT TOO
SCREAMING AT EACH OTHER.
MUCH TIME IN OUR OWN CORNERS
THAT IS PART OF THE
SCREAMING AT EACH OTHER.
POLITICAL PROCESS.
THAT IS PART OF THE
I GET THAT.
POLITICAL PROCESS.
IT IS PART OF WHAT YOU DO,
I GET THAT.
IS FIGHT FOR WHAT YOU
IT IS PART OF WHAT YOU DO,
BELIEVE IN WHEN YOU COME
IS FIGHT FOR WHAT YOU
HERE BUT AT THE END OF THE
BELIEVE IN WHEN YOU COME
DAY WHEN YOU ARE ELECTED,
HERE BUT AT THE END OF THE
ARE YOU ELECTED TO FIND
DAY WHEN YOU ARE ELECTED,
COMMON GROUND AN TO FIND A
ARE YOU ELECTED TO FIND
WAY TO MOVE FORWARD WHETHER
COMMON GROUND AN TO FIND A
YOU ARE IN A DIVIDED
WAY TO MOVE FORWARD WHETHER
GOVERNMENT OR NOT.
YOU ARE IN A DIVIDED
AND THAT'S WHERE WE ARE
GOVERNMENT OR NOT.
RIGHT NOW.
AND THAT'S WHERE WE ARE
AND THAT'S WHAT WE HAVE TO
RIGHT NOW.
WORK WITH, AND THAT'S HOW WE
AND THAT'S WHAT WE HAVE TO
HAVE TO MOVE FORWARD.
WORK WITH, AND THAT'S HOW WE
>> Woodruff: SENATOR PATTY
HAVE TO MOVE FORWARD.
MURRAY, THE CHAIRMAN OF THE
>> Woodruff: SENATOR PATTY
SENATE BUDGET COMMITTEE, WE
MURRAY, THE CHAIRMAN OF THE
THANK YOU.
SENATE BUDGET COMMITTEE, WE
>> SHUTLY.
>> Ifill: WITH DEADLINES LOOMING
EVER CLOSER FOR THOSE SEEKING
NEW INSURANCE COVERAGE AT THE
START OF THE YEAR, THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION ANNOUNCED A
SERIES OF CHANGES LATE TODAY.
IT INCLUDES ALLOWING INDIVIDUALS
TO PAY THEIR PREMIUMS, OR EVEN
PART OF THEM, ON THE LAST DAY OF
THE YEAR FOR COVERAGE STARTING
THE NEXT DAY.
AND THERE WILL BE AN EXTENSION
OF A SPECIAL INSURANCE POOL FOR
PEOPLE WITH PRE-EXISTING
CONDITIONS.
JEFFREY BROWN GETS THE DETAILS
ON WHAT PEOPLE NEED TO KNOW.
>> Brown: THE ADMINISTRATION
ALSO ASKED INSURERS TO BE
LENIENT WITH LATE SIGN-UPS AND
OTHER PROBLEMS.
ALEX WAYNE COVERS ALL THIS FOR
BLOOMBERG NEWS AND JOINS ME NOW.
IT WILL NOT EXTEND OR
REINSTATE PLANS THAT ARE
BEING CANCELED UNDER AT
FORDABLE CARE ACT.
ALEX WAYNE EXPLAINS ALL THIS
FROM PLOOM BERG NEW, FIRST A
BRIEF OVERVIEW, WHY THESE
STEPS.
>> SURE, WELL THE
ADMINISTERS-- ADMINISTRATION
IS TRYING TO CON FRONT A
NUMBER OF PROBLEMS THAT THEY
EITHER DIDN'T ANTICIPATE
WHEN THEY WERE WORKING ON
IMPLEMENTING THIS LAW OR
THAT THEY ANTICIPATED AND
DIDN'T ADDRESS IN ADVANCE.
SO THEY'VE GOT A PROBLEM
WITH ENROLLMENT.
IT'S A BIT ANEMIC RIGHT NOW.
THEY'RE ONLY ABOUT HALF THE
PACE THEY NEED TO BE TO GET
THE 7 MILLION PEOPLE THAT
THEY SAID THEY WANTED TO
ENROLL BY THE END OF MARCH.
THEY'VE ALSO HAD A PROBLEM
WITH CANCELLED HEALTH
INSURANCE PLANS.
THEY'VE HAD APPARENTLY MANY
MORE PEOPLE THAN THEY
THOUGHT FACE CANCELLATIONS
AT THE END OF THIS YEAR,
ANYWHERE BETWEEN 1.5 TO
MAYBE 4 OR 5 MILLION PEOPLE
IN THE COUNTRY.
>> Brown: SO ONE OF THE
THINGS THEY'RE DOING IS
ASKING INSURERS TO GIVE SOME
LEEWAY TO PEOPLE WHO MISS OR
ARE LATE WITH A PREMIUM.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> Brown: EXPLAIN THE
PROBLEM.
>> SURE, RIGHT NOW YOU HAVE
UNTIL DECEMBER 23rd TO SIGN
FOR COVERAGE THAT WOULD BE
EFFECTIVE ON JANUARY 1st.
THE ADMINISTRATION SAID
TODAY YOU DON'T HAVE TO PAY
FOR THAT COVERAGE UNTIL
DECEMBER 31st.
THERE ARE A LOT OF DATES
HERE.
AND THEN THEY-- .
>> Brown: THEY KEEP MOVING.
>> THEY DO KEEP MOVING.
THEY ALSO SAID TODAY, THEY
BASICALLY ASKED INSURERS,
PLEASE WOULD YOU ALLOW
PEOPLE TO PAY EVEN LATER
THAN DECEMBER 31st.
SO FOR EXAMPLE, AETNA SAID
THAT PEOPLE WHO SIGN UP FOR
COVERAGE THAT STARTS JANUARY
1st, THEY WON'T ACTUALLY
HAVE TO PAY UNTIL JANUARY
8th.
>> Brown: NOW ANOTHER MOVE
WAS, AND THIS WAS FOR PEOPLE
WITH VERY SEVERE HEALTH
CONDITIONS, WAS TO HELP TO
GIVE THEM SOME RELIEF.
NOW EXPLAIN THE PROBLEM
THERE, AND HOW MANY PEOPLE
ARE WE TALKING ABOUT.
>> RIGHT T AFFECTS ABOUT
85,000 PEOPLE WHO ARE VERY
ILL.
BACK IN 2010 WHEN CONGRESS
PASSED THIS LAW, THEY
CREATED THIS PROGRAM, IT WAS
CALLED A HIGH RISK POOL AT
THE TIME.
NOW IT'S CALLED THE
PREEXISTING CONDITIONS
INSURANCE PLAN THAT IS
DESIGNED TO COVER THESE
PEOPLE UNTIL 2014 WHEN THE
NEW COVERAGE REFORMS KICK IN,
AND INSURERS ARE FORBIDDEN
FROM DENYING COVERAGE TO
SICK PEOPLE.
THAT PROGRAM IS ABOUT TO
EXPIRT-- EXPIRE AT THE END
OF THE MONTH.
BUT MANY OF THESE PEOPLE
MAYBE HAVE NOT BEEN ABLE TO
FIND ALTERNATIVE COVERAGE
YET.
THE ADMINISTRATION IS
CONCERNED THEY WOULD FACE A
COVERAGE LAPS.
THEIR PCIP.
>> Brown: THESE ARE PEOPLE
WHO REALLY NEED IT.
>> THEY'RE SICK.
THEY CAN'T GO A MONTH
WITHOUT COVERAGE.
SO THE ADMINISTRATION WANTED
TO DO THIS TO MAKE SURE THEY
DON'T FACE ANY KIND EVER A
GAP.
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT, NOW
ALSO IN THE LEANING ON
INSURANCE CATEGORY IS TO
COVER PEOPLE RETROACTIVELY
EVEN IF THERE HAS BEEN AN
ERROR IN THEIR APPLICATION.
>> RIGHT.
>> Brown: AND THERE S OF
COURSE, BECAUSE THERE HAVE
BEEN A LOT OF ERRORS.
>> THERE HAVE BEEN A LOT OF
PROBLEMS WITH THE EXCHANGE
SO FAR.
RIGHT.
SO THEY SAID THAT PEOPLE WHO
TRIED TO APPLY BEFORE
DECEMBER 23rd AND FACED SOME
SORT OF A GLITCH, TECHNICAL
ERROR OR BUG, WILL HAVE WHAT
THEY CALL A SPECIAL
ENROLLMENT PERIOD TO TRY
AGAIN.
AND IF THEY SUCCEED DURING
THAT SPECIAL ENROLLMENT
PERIOD, WHATEVER IT IS,
THEIR COVERAGE WILL BE
EFFECTIVE RETROACTIVE TO
JANUARY 1st.
>> Brown: YOU MENTIONED
AETNA EARLIER AS A COMPANY
SAYING TODAY IT WOULD MOVE
ONE OF THOSE DEADLINES.
I MENTIONED AETNA IN THE
INTRODUCTION IN A DIFFERENT
LIGHT.
TELL US ABOUT ITS MOVES
TODAY.
>> WELL, AETNA SAID TODAY
THAT THERE-- THEY'RE NOT
GOING TO EXTEND CURRENT
POLICIES FOR PEOPLE WHO HAVE
COVERAGE TODAY.
AND YOU ARE GOING TO HAVE TO
SIGN FOR A NEW PLAN THAT
MEETS ALL THE REQUIREMENTS
OF THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
>> Brown: IS THIS A
SURPRISE?
>> IT'S A LITTLE BIT OF A
SURPRISE.
I BEE FIRST
PUBLICLY TRADED BIG
INSURANCE COMPANY TO SAY
THIS.
BUT ALREADY SEVERAL STATES
HAVE SAID THAT THEY'RE NOT
GOING TO ALLOW INSURANCE
COMPANIES TO EXTEND OLD
PLANS.
SOME EXPERTS REFER TO THESE
PLANS SOMETIMES AS JUNK
INSURANCE, MAYBE THEY DON'T
COVER ALL THE BENEFITS THE
AFFORDABLE CARE AGO
REQUIRES.
SOME OF THESE PLANS ARE
ACTUALLY GOOD COVERAGE,
THOUGH.
WHATEVER THE CASE, THEY'RE
TO THE GOING TO BE EXTENDED
IN A LOT OF STATES INCLUDING
CALIFORNIA, WASHINGTON AND A
FEW OTHERS.
>> Brown: FINALLY YOU ASKED
A VERY FRAUGHT QUESTION AT
THIS PRESS CONFERENCE TODAY.
WHICH IS WHETHER IT MIGHT BE
THE CASE THAT ON
JANUARY-- AT THE BEGINNING
OF ALL THIS, THAT MORE
PEOPLE ACTUALLY LOSE THEIR
COVERAGE THAN WILL GAIN
COVERAGE.
>> YEAH, THEY DIDN'T GIVE ME
MUCH OF AN ANSWER.
BECAUSE OF THESE PROBLEMS
THEY FACE, ENROLLMENT HAS
BEEN ANEMIC FOR OBAMACARE.
AND ALL OF THESE CURRENT
PLANS ARE BEING CANCELED.
THEY REALLY FACE A SITUATION
WHERE ON JANUARY 1st MORE
PEOPLE MAY HAVE LOST
COVERAGE THAN ACTUALLY HAVE
SIGNED UP UNDER O
BILLIONACARE.
THEY WOULDN'T PROMISE TODAY
THAT THAT WON'T HAPPEN.
AND WE WON'T REALLY KNOW
UNTIL JANUARY 15th OR THERE
ABOUTS WHEN THEY ANNOUNCE
HOW MANY PEOPLE ACTUALLY
SIGNED UP IN DECEMBER.
>> Brown: WE REALLY WON'T
KNOW BECAUSE A LOT OF THIS
STILL IS SO MUCH IN PLAY
EVEN IN THE NEXT FEW WEEKS.
>> AND BECAUSE THE
ADMINISTRATION DOESN'T GIVE
UPDATES ON ENROLLMENT EXCEPT
ONCE A MONTH.
>> Brown: ALEX WAYNE OF
BLOOMBERG, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU MUCH
>> Woodruff: THIS MONTH,
PRESIDENT OBAMA IS EXPECTED TO
ANNOUNCE CHANGES IN HOW THE
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY
CONDUCTS SURVEILLANCE.
TONIGHT, CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
1CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER
KICKS OFF A SERIES OF
CONVERSATIONS WITH LAWMAKERS ON
THE SCOPE OF N.S.A. SPYING AND
WHAT, IF ANYTHING, SHOULD BE
DONE TO RESTRICT IT.
SHE STARTS WITH SOME BACKGROUND.
>> Warner: THE BOXY, ONE
MILLION-SQUARE-FOOT COMPLEX
RISING FROM THE UTAH DESERT
OUTSIDE SALT LAKE CITY, RINGED
BY HEAVY SECURITY AND CODE-NAMED
"BUMBLEHIVE," IS THE LATEST DATA
MINING CENTER OF THE NATIONAL
SECURITY AGENCY, OR N.S.A.
IT'S BUILT TO PROCESS THE TROVES
OF DATA BEING VACUUMED UP BY THE
N.S.A. WORLDWIDE, FROM PHONE
CALLS, TEXTS, EMAIL, INTERNET
SEARCHES AND SOCIAL MEDIA.
THE ACTIVITIES OF THE SUPER-
SECRET SPY AGENCY, HEADQUARTERED
JUST OUTSIDE WASHINGTON, HAS
GROWN DRAMATICALLY SINCE THE
9/11 TERROR ATTACKS.
BUT THE DETAILS OF ITS WORK,
WHICH BY LAW FOCUSES ON FOREIGN
INTELLIGENCE, REMAINED LARGELY A
MYSTERY UNTIL EARLY JUNE WITH
THE PUBLICATION OF REAMS OF
DOCUMENTS LEAKED BY FORMER
N.S.A. CONTRACTOR EDWARD
SNOWDEN.
AMONG THE MOST EXPLOSIVE
REVELATIONS, THAT THE N.S.A. HAD
COLLECTED FROM U.S. PHONE
COMPANIES THE SO-CALLED
METADATA OF MILLIONS OF CALLS,
THE NUMBERS, LOCATION AND
DURATION OF NOT ONLY FOREIGNERS
BUT MANY AMERICAN CITIZENS.
THE PRESIDENT QUICKLY SOUGHT TO
REASSURE THE AMERICAN PUBLIC.
>> NOBODY IS LISTENING TO YOUR
TELEPHONE CALLS.
THAT'S NOT WHAT THIS PROGRAM'S
ABOUT.
BY SIFTING THROUGH THIS SO-
CALLED METADATA, THEY MAY
IDENTIFY POTENTIAL LEADS WITH
RESPECT TO FOLKS WHO MIGHT
ENGAGE IN TERRORISM.
>> Warner: BUT THE REVELATIONS
CONTINUED TO MOUNT OVER THE
SUMMER, AND, IN THE FALL, CAME
WORD THAT THE U.S. WAS
EAVESDROPPING ON LEADERSOF
ALLIED GOVERNMENTS, INCLUDING
THE PERSONAL CELL PHONE OF
GERMAN CHANCELLOR ANGELA MERKEL.
>> ( translated ): I HAVE MADE
IT CLEAR TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES THAT SPYING ON
FRIENDS IS NOT ACCEPTABLE AT
ALL.
I SAID THAT WHEN HE WAS IN
BERLIN IN JULY AND ALSO
YESTERDAY IN A TELEPHONE CALL.
IT'S NOT JUST ABOUT ME, BUT
ABOUT EVERY GERMAN CITIZEN.
>> Warner: DAYS AFTER THAT, THE
PREDENTSI ANNOUNCED A REVIEW OF
THE N.S.A.'S SURVEILLANCE
ACTIVITIES.
>> WHAT WE'VE SEEN OVER THE LAST
SEVERAL YEARS IS THEIR
CAPACITIES CONTINUE TO DEVELOP
AND EXPAND, AND THAT'S WHY I'M
INITIATING NOW A REVIEW TO MAKE
SURE THAT WHAT THEY'RE ABLE TO
DO DOESN'T NECESSARILY MEAN WHAT
THEY SHOULD BE DOING.
>> Warner: THIS PAST MONDAY,
EIGHT U.S. TECH GIANTS,
INCLUDING GOOGLE, MICROSOFT AND
FACEBOOK-- WROTE AN OPEN LETTER
TO THE PRESIDENT CALLING FOR
REFORMS.
IT SAID THE N.S.A.'S AGGRESSIVE
SURVEILLANCE WAS TRAMPLING ON
INDIVIDUAL RIGHTS AND WAS
DAMAGING THEIR COMPANIES'
BUSINESS PROSPECTS OVERSEAS.
THE PRESIDENT HAS TWO PANELS
NOW REVIEWING N.S.A. POLICY,
WITH THEIR REPORTS AND
RECOMMENDATIONS EXPECTED BY
YEAR'S END.
ONE OF THE LAWMAKERS MOST WELL-
VERSED IN THESE PROGRAMS IS
MICHIGAN REPUBLICAN CONGRESSMAN
AND FORMER F.B.I. AGENT MIKE
ROGERS, CHAIRMAN OF THE HOUSE
INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE.
I SPOKE WITH HIM LAST NIGHT IN
HIS OFFICE.
CHAIRMAN RORS, GETHANKS FOR
JOINING US.
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
>> Warner: AS YOU KNOW THE
PRESIDENT IS REVIEWING
SURVEILLANCE POLICY O
CHANGES ARE GOING TO HAPPEN
COMING OUT LATER THIS MONTH.
IF HE WERE SEEKING YOUR
COUNSEL, WHAT IS THE MOST
PROFOUND THING YOU THINK HE
NEEDS TO ADDRESS?
>> PART OF THE PROBLEM WITH
WHERE WE'RE AT IS THAT WE'RE
FIGHTING PERCEPTION ABOUT
WHAT PEOPLE THINK IS
HAPPENING VERSUS WHAT'S
ACTUALLY HAPPENING.
AND SO THAT'S BEEN OUR
BIGGEST CHALLENGE ON THE
EDUCATION PIECE.
SO I THINK THE FIRST ROUND,
WE ALL WANT TO AGREE THAT
THESE PROGRAMS HAVE KEPT
AMERICANS SAFE.
THEY'VE KEPT OUR ALLIES
SAFE.
THERE ARE MULTIPLE LEVELS OF
OVERSIGHT THAT NO OTHER
INTELLIGENCE SERVICE IN THE
WORLD HAS, LIKE THE UNITED
STATES INTELLIGENCE
OVERSIGHT BETWEEN THE COURTS
AND THE CONGRESS AND THE
INSPECTOR GENERAL AND THEN
THE FBI, THE DEPARTMENTS OF
JUSTICE, YOU NAME IT, HAS IT
ALL.
SO I THINK WHAT WE CAN DO IS
HAVE SOME CONFIDENCE
BUILDERS FOR THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE TO LOOK AT THIS AND
UNDERSTAND, AH, ONE PERSON
CAN'T RUN OFF AND LISTEN
YOUR PHONE CALL OR READ YOUR
E-MAIL.
NONE OF THAT IS HAPPENING.
>> Warner: SO ARE YOU SAYING
THE PRESIDENT NEEDS TO MAYBE
BRING MORE TRANSPARENCY, DO
EXACTLY WHAT'S BEING DONE,
WHO IS DOING IT, AND WHAT
THE SAFEGUARDS ARE?
>> I THINK THAT WOULD BE
INCREDIBLY HELPFUL TO DO
THAT.
>> Warner: BUT ISN'T THERE
THEN TENSION BETWEEN THAT
AND HOW MUCH YOU WANT TO
DIVULGE, HE WANTS TO
DIVULGE?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
I DO THINK WE CAN TALK ABOUT
SOME OF THE OVERSIGHT WE
HAVE ON CERTAIN ASPECTS OF
THE PROGRAM.
CERTAINLY THE BUSINESS
RECORDS PORTION, MEHTADATA
ON BUSINESS RECORD, PHONE
RECORDS.
THAT CERTAINLY, I THINK-- .
>> Warner: THAT IS THE SORT
OF BULK COLLECTION OF PHONE
RECORDS, WHO WERE CALLED,
WHEN YOU CALL AND THE LENGTH
OF THE CALL.
>> WITH THE EXCEPTION WE
DON'T KNOW WHO YOU ARE OR
WHERE YOU LIVE.
IT'S JUST A BUNCH OF PHONE
NUMBERS THAT WE USE AS A
FOREIGN NEXUS TO TERRORISM.
SO A FOREIGNER IN
AFGHANISTAN OR PAKISTAN THAT
WE ASSUME IS A-- AND HAS
GOOD CREDIBILITY THAT IS A
TERRORIST HAS A PHONE NUMBER
OF A U.S. NUMBER.
IF YOU WANT-- YOU WANT TO BE
ABLE TO MAKE THAT NEXUS THAT
VAL WHAT THAT DATABASE IS.
>> Warner: DO YOU THINK THAT
THE BALANCE BETWEEN
PROTECTING THE SECURITY OF
THIS COUNTRY AGAINST
TERRORIST THREAT AND THE
SORT OF AFFIRMATIVE
PROTECTION OF CIVIL
LIBERTIES HAS GOTTEN OUT OF
WHACK?
>> I DON'T THINK WE'RE OUT
OF WHACK.
WE COULD ALWAYS IMPROVE.
I WOULD NEVER SAY NEVER IN
THAT REGARD.
IN THE METADATA COLLECTION
THERE HAS BEEN NO WILLFUL
USE TO MISUSE THE PROIF SEE
OF JUST YOUR PHONE NUMBER,
NOT EVEN YOUR NAME.
>> Warner: THERE IS SUPPOSED
TO BE NO LIMIT ON WHAT DATA
THEY CAN COLLECT.
AND EVEN THE PRESIDENT SAID
WE HAVE TO IS AT SOME POINT
WHETHER THE TECHNOLOGY HAS
OUTPACED THE LAWS AND
PROTECTIONS THAT ARE IN
PLACE.
>> WELL, I THINK THE
TECHNOLOGY IS KEEPING UP
WITH OUR ADVERSARIES
INTERESTS TO DO HARM TO THE
UNITED STATES.
AND TO AS SYSTEMS TO
COMMUNICATE.
AND HERE'S WHAT I THINK IS A
BIG PART.
AND WE CONSTANTLY REVIEWED
THIS, BY THE WAY.
WE HAVE TO BE ABLE TO MAKE
OUR LAWS CONSISTENT WITH
TECHNOLOGY AND WHERE WE ARE
IN 20134-- 2013 VERSUS 1947
WHEN THE NATIONAL SECURITY
ACT WAS WRITTEN.
BUT YOU THINK ABOUT WHERE WE
ARE.
SO IN TODAY, IN THE NETWORKS
IN THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA, OVER 80% OF THEM
ARE PRIVATE NETWORKS WHICH
MEANS THE NSA DOES NOT
MONITOR THEM.
THERE IS NO WHOLESALE
MONITORING.
THEY'RE NOT READING YOUR
E-MAILS.
THEY'RE NOT LISTENING TO
YOUR PHONE CALLS.
THAT'S SIMPLY NOT HAPPENING.
>> Warner: THE EUROPEANS ARE
EXTREMELY UP SET WITH THE
SNOWDEN REVELATIONS ABOUT
THE DEGREE TO WHICH THEY'RE
BEING SURVEILED.
>> RIGHT.
WELL, FIRST OF ALL, THE
HYPOCRISY IN THIS DEBATE HAS
BEEN SHOCKING TO ME FROM OUR
EUROPEAN ALLIES.
AS I OFTEN SAID IT'S GOOD TO
REMIND OURSELVES THAT
ESPIONAGE IS A FRENCH WORD,
AFTER ALL.
AND SO WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE
INTELLIGENCE SERVICES OF OUR
ALLIES IN THE EUROPEAN UNION,
THEY ARE ALIVE AND WELL AND
AGGRESSIVE.
AND SOME NOTION THAT THE
INFORMATION THAT WE HAVE
BEEN COLLECTING OVER TIME
HASN'T BENEFITTED OUR ALLIES
IS JUST SIMPLY NOT TRUE.
SOME 54 DIFFERENT ATTACKS
THWARTED JUST BY OUR
BUSINESS RECORD METADATA
COLLECTION.
AND ANOTHER PROGRAM
THAT-- PROGRAM THAT WE USE
TO COLLECT INFORMATION HAS
BEEN SHARED WITH OUR ALLIES
AND STOPPED TERRORIST
ATTACKS IN GERMANY.
>> Warner: AND YOU KNOW THAT
TO BE THE CASE.
>> I ABSOLUTELY KNOW THAT TO
BE THE CASE.
AND HERE'S THE GOOD NEWS.
NOW SO DO THEY.
AND SO SOMETIMES THE
POLITICIANS WERE SAYING THIS
AND NOT REALIZING THAT
SOMETHING ELSE WAS GOING ON
AND SHARING INFORMATION AND
COOPERATION.
>> Warner: AS THE BIG U.S.
INTERNET GIANTS JUST SAID
THIS WEEK, I MEAN YAHOO! AND
GOOGLE AND FACEBOOK, THE
PERCEPTION IN EUROPE NOW IS
THAT DOING BUSINESS WITH OUR
COMPANIES ISN'T SAFE.
AND THEY CAN'T TRUST US.
AND IT'S HURTING THEIR
BUSINESS.
IS THIS SOMETHING THE
PRESIDENT HAS TO DO
SOMETHING TO ADDRESS TO
REDRESS AND WHAT COULD HE
DO?
>> I THINK WE LOST THE PR
WAR ON THE FRONTMENT BUT
IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT TO
UNDERSTAND THAT, AGAIN,
FRANCE JUST PASSED A LAW TO
MAKE IT EASIER TO GO AFTER
SERVERS IN THEIR OWN
COUNTRY.
ALL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION
NOW IS SAYING WELL, MAYBE WE
SHOULD HAVE SERVERS ONLY
STATIONED IN OUR COUNTRY.
WELL, GUESS WHAT, THAT MEANS
THAT THEIR STANDARD OF
OVERSITE, THEIR STANDARD OF
PROTECTION IS VERY DIFFERENT
THAN OURS.
AND WE DO HAVE MULTIPLE
LAYERS OF OVERSIGHT THAT
THEY DON'T HAVE.
>> Warner: COMING BACK TO
THE U.S., THE PAN WRITERS
GROUP DID A SURVEY OF 250
PROFESSIONAL WRITERS, IT
JUST CAME OUT THIS WEEK.
AND A QUARTER OF THESE
WRITERS SAID THEY FEEL
INHIBITIED.
THEY ARE CENSORING
THEMSELVES IN WHAT THEY
DISCUSS IN E-MAIL IN THE
RESEARCH THEY DO ESPECIALLY
IF IT INVOLVES ANYTHING
OVERSEAS.
DOES THAT, AS ONE WITH
INDIVIDUAL LIBERTIES, DOES
THAT CONCERN YOU.
>> THE ATTITUDE CERTAINLY
DOES.
AND YOU KNOW, THAT'S MORTIFYING
TO ME THAT THEY WOULD FEEL
THAT THAT WOULD BE AN ISSUE
THAT THE GOVERNMENT WOULD BE
INTERESTED IN, CANDIDLY.
EVEN THEIR ENGAGE MOOD SOME
ISSUE THAT MAY BE EVEN
QUESTIONABLE, IF IT'S A
POLITICAL ISSUE AND YOU ARE
EXPRESSING YOURSELF, YOU
NEED TO FEEL COMFORTABLE
THAT YOU CAN DO THAT IN THE
UNITED STATES.
WE SHOULD NEVER LOSE THAT.
>> Warner: SOME MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS AT LEAST ON THE
SENATE SIDE FEEL THAT
THEY'VE BEEN MISLEAD ABOUT
BY THE HEAD OF THE NSA, BY
THE DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL
INTELLIGENCE ABOUT HOW MUCH
DATA IS BEING COLLECTED ON
AMERICA, METADATA, WHATEVER
WAH WANT TO CALL IT.
DO YOU FEEL THAT THERE'S
BEEN ANY EITHER MISLEADING,
WILLFUL OR OTHERWISE ABOUT
THE EXTENT OF THAT?
>> I KNOW AS THE CHAIRMAN OF
THE HOUSE INTELLIGENCE
COMMITTEE WE HAVE HAD THIS
INFORMATION.
WE HAVE BEEN BRIEFED ON IT
WE'VE HAD AN OPPORTUNITY TO
ASK QUESTIONS ON IT I
SUPPORTED THESE PROGRAMS.
WE HAD SOME DIFFERENCES.
WE WORKED THEM OUT.
WERE THERE PROBLEMS THAT WE
FOUND, YES.
BUT WE WORK WITH THEM IN THE
APPROPRIATE CHANNELS,
CLASSIFIED CHANNELS TO FIX
THEM.
LIKE YOU WOULD EXPECT US TO
DO AS MEMBER OF THE THE
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE.
BUT IF HE END OF THE DAY I
SUPPORTED THEM WHEN NBA KNEW
ABOUT THEM.
AND I SUPPORT THEM NOW.
>> Warner: CHAIRMAN MIKE
>> Woodruff: TOMORROW, MARGARET
ROGERS, THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: TOMORROW, MARGARET
WILL HAVE AN INTERVIEW WITH A
VOCAL CRITIC OF N.S.A.
SURVEILLANCE: DEMOCRATIC SENATOR
RON WYDEN OF OREGON.
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT, WE
REMEMBER THE NEWTOWN MASSACRE,
WHICH OCCURRED ONE YEAR AGO THIS
SATURDAY.
AN AFTERNOON VIGIL HELD AT THE
WASHINGTON NATIONAL CATHEDRAL
TODAY COMMEMORATED NOT JUST
THOSE KILLED IN THE CONNECTICUT
SHOOTINGS, BUT ALSO OTHER GUN-
RELATED HOMICIDES THROUGHOUT THE
YEAR.
A KOOND EL LIGHTING CEREMONY
AND REMARKS BY FAMILY
MEMBERS.
THAT INCLUDED THE FATHER OF
LAURYN RUSEAU, A TEACHER
KILLED AT THE ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL ONE YEAR AGO.
>> WE ARE HERE TODAY WITH
THE COMMON GOAL OF
REMEMBERING OUR LOVED ONES,
AND SEEKING TO MAKE OUR
WORLD A SAFER PLACE.
ACTS OF KINDNESS AND EFFORTS
TO PROMOTE JUST CAUSE ARE
THE BEST WAY TO KEEP THE
MEMORY OF THE VICTIM OF GUN
VIOLENCE ALIVE.
>> Ifill: AND THAT BRINGS US TO
NEWTOWN, WHERE FAMILIES HAVE
BEEN STRUGGLING TO DEAL WITH THE
ISSUE OF GUN VIOLENCE.
RESIDENTS ASKED MEMBERS OF THEYE
ACTUAL ANNIVERSARY, BUT TWO
FAMILIES AGREED TO SIT DOWN WITH
HARI SREENIVASAN LAST MONTH.
HERE'S HARI'S STORY.
>> Sreenivasan: 20 FIRST-GRADERS
GUNNED DOWN IN THEIR CLASSROOMS,
SIX ADULTS KILLED TRYING TO
PROTECT THEM.
ONE YEAR AFTER THE MASSACRE AT
SANDY HOOK ELEMENTARY SCHOOL IN
NEWTOWN, CONNECTICUT, PARENTS
STRUGGLE TO MAKE SENSE FROM A
SENSELESS ACT OF VIOLENCE.
FOR NICOLE HOCKLEY, THE MOTHER
OF SIX-YEAR-OLD DYLAN, WHO WAS
KILLED THAT DAY, THE GRIEF OF
THE PAST TWELVE MONTHS HAS BEEN
UNIMAGINABLE.
>> THIS HAS BEEN THE MOST AWFUL,
THE MOST SURREAL YEAR OF MY
LIFE.
>> Sreenivasan: AS YOU APPROACH
THIS DARK ANNIVERSARY, WHAT'S
GOING THROUGH YOUR MIND?
>> THE ONE-YEAR MARK, THE SIX-
YEAR MARK, IT DOESN'T CHANGE
ANYTHING.
IT'S A PASSAGE OF TIME AT A TIME
AND PLACE WHERE TIME DOESN'T
HAVE MUCH MEANING FOR ME,
BECAUSE IT'S JUST ONE MORE DAY
THAT DYLAN'S NOT IN MY ARMS.
THAT'S NOT GOING TO CHANGE.
>> Sreenivasan: BUT WHAT HOCKLEY
IS HOPING TO CHANGE IS THE
LIKELIHOOD THAT A HORRIFIC SCENE
LIKE THE ONE THAT PLAYED OUT AT
SANDY HOOK ONE YEAR AGO WILL
NEVER HAPPEN AGAIN.
>> BEING IN THIS SITUATION, I
HAVE TO MAKE SOMETHING GOOD COME
FROM IT.
SO, THIS YEAR IS ALL ABOUT...
HAS BEEN VERY MUCH ABOUT
LEARNING THINGS THAT I'D NEVER
THOUGHT I'D HAVE TO LEARN ABOUT.
IT'S BEEN ABOUT TACKLING
PROBLEMS AND GRIEF FROM A
PERSPECTIVE THAT I NEVER THOUGHT
THAT I WOULD EVER EXPERIENCE.
IT'S BEEN A TIME OF SORROW BUT
ALSO OF GROWTH, JUST TRYING TO
FIND A WAY FOR MYSELF AND MY
FAMILY TO REINVEST OURSELVES IN
THIS NEW LIFE AND FIND A WAY
FORWARD AND THROUGH IT.
>> Sreenivasan: IT IS A JOURNEY
THAT HAS LED NICOLE HOCKLEY INTO
A YEAR OF ADVOCACY.
TO FIND SOLUTIONS TO THE KIND OF
VIOLENCE THAT TOOK HER YOUNGEST
SON, HOCKLEY AND OTHER GRIEVING
FAMILIES FORMED THE SANDY HOOK
PROMISE.
>> IT IS A SAD HONOR TO BE HERE
TODAY.
>> IT'S BEEN A MONTH SINCE I
LOST MY SON AND 25 OTHER
FAMILIES LOST THEIR LOVED
WITHINS.
AT TIMES IT FEELS AS IF
YESTERDAY AND OTHERS AS IF
MANY YEARS HAVE PASSED
>> Sreenivasan: ALMOST
IMMEDIATELY, THE PARENTS WERE
SWEPT UP IN A NATIONAL DEBATE
AROUND GUN POLICY.
>> BEFORE LAST MONTH, I HAD
NEVER MADE A CASE TO A
LEGISLATOR.
WE APPROACHED THE CONNECTICUT
LEGISLATURE WITH LOVE AND LOGIC,
AND THEY LISTENED.
THEY RESPONDED WITH RESPECT AND
THE STRONGEST GUN RESPONSIBILITY
LEGISLATION IN THE NATION.
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
>> MY WAY OF GRIEVING IS TO BE
ACTIVE AND TO ENSURE THAT THIS
ISN'T JUST A SENSELESS TRAGEDY.
THIS IS MY WAY OF HONORING DYLAN
AND THE OTHERS THAT DIED, AND
PROVIDING HIM A LEGACY.
I'M NEVER GOING TO KNOW WHAT
SORT OF ADULT HE COULD HAVE BEEN
BECAUSE HE WAS SIX, BUT IF I CAN
HELP HIM BE ASSOCIATED WITH A
POSITIVE CHANGE THAT SAVES THE
LIVES OF OTHERS, THEN THAT'S A
MEANINGFUL LEGACY TO HAVE, AND
THAT'S WHAT I'VE COMMITTED TO
DELIVERING.
>> Sreenivasan: WORKING SIDE BY
ELIVER THAT CHANGE ARE NEWTOWN
PARENTS JACKIE AND MARK BARDEN.
THE BARDENS LOST THEIR YOUNGEST
SON, DANIEL, AT SANDY HOOK
ELEMENTARY.
A COMMENT FROM THEIR OLDEST SON
SET THEM ON THEIR COURSE.
>> IT WAS OUR 13 YEAR OLD SON,
JAMES.
HE SAID, "I WOULD LIKE TO SEE NO
OTHER FAMILY EVER HAVE TO GO
THROUGH THIS AGAIN."
AND WE THOUGHT, IF WE HAD THE
OPPORTUNITY TO HAVE SOME
INFLUENCE IN THAT, THEN WE SURE
WOULD.
WITH SANDY HOOK PROMISE, WE WANT
TO BE KNOWN AS THE TOWN WHERE
TRAGEDY TURNED INTO
TRANSFORMATION.
WE'D LIKE THIS TO BE THE PLACE
WHERE POSITIVE CHANGE, POSITIVE
MEANINGFUL, LASTING CHANGE
STARTED.
>> Sreenivasan: SINCE YOUNG
LY COMMENT, THE COUPLE
HAS INCLUDED THEIR CHILDREN,
EVEN TAKING THEM TO THE WHITE
HOUSE FOR SPRING BREAK.
ALL YOUR KIDS SEEM VERY CLOSE.
>> THEY WERE VERY CLOSE.
THEY USED TO SLEEP IN THE SAME
BED IF THEY COULD.
YOU WANT TO CONNECT THROUGH
PHOTOS, BUT SOMETIMES IT'S JUST
TOO HARD.
IT'S TOO MUCH.
( SOBBING )
>> SOME DAYS, IT'S BETTER THAN
OTHERS
YOU CAN SEE ALL OF HIS FRECKLES.
>> IT MAKES ME THINK OF WHEN I
USED TO CHECK HIS LITTLE TEETH
TO SEE IF HE BRUSHED, AND THERE
WAS THAT MINTY SMELL OF
TOOTHPASTE.
AND I WILL MISS THAT SO MUCH.
>> Sreenivasan: THE BARDENS
FOUND THEMSELVES IN THE MIDDLE
OF A HEATED NATIONAL DEBATE
AROUND GUNS THAT CULMINATED LAST
SPRING WHEN FEDERAL LEGISLATION
TO EXPAND BACKGROUND CHECKS FOR
GUN OWNERS FAILED.
THE DEFEAT WAS WIDELY SEEN AS
STALLING MOMENTUM GAINED BY GUN
CONTROL ADVOCATES.
>> ALL IN ALL, THIS WAS A PRETTY
SHAMEFUL DAY FOR WASHINGTON.
BUT THIS EFFORT IS NOT OVER.
>> Sreenivasan: WERE YOU
DISAPPOINTED WHEN FEDERAL
LEGISLATION DIDN'T GO THROUGH?
>> YEAH, WE WERE DISAPPOINTED,
BUT WHAT WE'RE SETTING OUT TO DO
IS BIGGER THAN JUST THAT.
WE'RE LOOKING TO RESET THE
CONVERSATION.
WE'RE LOOKING TO MAKE PEOPLE
THINK ABOUT THIS DIFFERENTLY.
>> Sreenivasan: TO RESET THE
CONVERSATION, THE SANDY HOOK
PROMISE TEAM EMPHASIZES THAT
THIS IS NOT A DISCUSSION ABOUT
GUN CONTROL; IT'S ABOUT WAYS TO
PREVENT GUN VIOLENCE.
>> I THINK THE TRADITIONAL
APPROACH HAS BEEN TOP-DOWN-- GO
YELL AND SCREAM AT YOUR
LEGISLATOR AND GET THEM TO VOTE
THE WAY YOU WANT THEM TO VOTE,
AND IMPLEMENT LAWS THAT WILL
FORCE EVERYBODY TO ABIDE BY.
I THINK THAT'S MAYBE NOT
WORKING.
>> IN THE WAKE OF
UNTHINKABLE VIOLENCE AGAINST
OUR CHILDREN, WE CAME
TOGETHER AS A NATION.
>> Sreenivasan: THE NEW STRATEGY
IS TO APPEAL TO DIRECTLY TO
PARENTS-- WITH STAR POWER FROM
HOLLYWOOD-- IN THE HOPES OF
AVOIDING CONTENTIOUS POLITICAL
BATTLES.
INSTEAD, THEY PLAN TO IDENTIFY
AND SUPPORT PREVENTION PROGRAMS
THAT ADDRESS THE CAUSES OF GUN
VIOLENCE.
>> I MEAN, IT IS REALLY NOT
POLITICAL.
IT IS REALLY JUST ABOUT THINKING
ABOUT... YOU KNOW, WE ALL HAVE
CHILDREN, AND WHAT DO WE NEED TO
DO IN ORDER TO MAKE THIS A SAFER
ENVIRONMENT FOR OUR CHILDREN?
I THINK, ONCE YOU THROW THE
I THINK ONCE THE POLITICS IS
OUT, IT BECOMES SIMPLER.
>> WE'RE NOT JUST ABOUT GUNS,
AND WE'RE NOT JUST ABOUT
LEGISLATION.
WE ARE RISING ABOVE THE
POLITICS, AND WE'RE LOOKING AT
THE CAUSES OF GUN VIOLENCE,
PARTICULARLY MENTAL WELLNESS,
AND COMMUNITY.
AND OTHER GROUPS HAVEN'T DONE
THAT TO DATE, AND I THINK THIS
IS A NEW WAY FOR PEOPLE TO
ENGAGE IN SOMETHING THAT THEY
HAVEN'T ENGAGED BEFORE.
AND EVERYONE IS AWARE THAT WE
HAVE A PROBLEM WITH GUN VIOLENCE
IN THIS COUNTRY, BUT THEY FEEL
HELPLESS AND NOT KNOW WHAT TO
DO.
THEY FEEL IT'S TOO POLITICAL,
IT'S TOO HARD, IT'S TOO MUCH OF
A FIGHT.
WELL, WE'RE SAYING IT DOESN'T
HAVE TO BE ANY OF THOSE THINGS.
THIS IS ABOUT A CONVERSATION AND
COMMUNITY-BASED SOLUTIONS, THAT
WE CAN DELIVER OURSELVES AND
HELP PREVENT THIS.
>> Sreenivasan: NICOLE HOCKLEY
SAYS HER FAMILY WILL CONTINUE TO
TAKE THINGS DAY BY DAY, AND SHE
REMAINS OPTIMISTIC ABOUT THE
FUTURE.
>> AFTER 12/14, WHAT I SAW WAS A
NATION REALLY COME TOGETHER IN A
WAY THAT I'D NOT SEEN HAPPEN
BEFORE; THAT SENSE OF OUTRAGE,
BUT ALSO THAT SENSE OF LOVE AND
COMPASSION.
AND THE CONVERSATION HAS CHANGED
SLIGHTLY OVER THIS YEAR, BUT
IT'S STILL ALIVE AND IT'S STILL
THERE.
AND PEOPLE THAT HAD NEVER BEEN
ENGAGED IN ISSUES BEFORE DECIDED
TO BECOME ENGAGED, DECIDED THAT
ENOUGH IS ENOUGH, IT'S TIME TO
DO SOMETHING.
AND I'M REALLY HOPING THAT
THROUGH THE ONE-YEAR MARK AND
GOING FORWARD WE CAN RE-IGNITE
THAT SENSE OF TOGETHERNESS IN
THIS COUNTRY AND COME BACK
TOGETHER.
>> Sreenivasan: SO FAR, OVER
262,000 PEOPLE HAVE VISITED THE
WEB SITE AND TAKEN THE SANDY
HOOK PROMISE.
>> IT.
>> YOU KNOW WHATEVER YOUR
POSITION IS ON GUNS, YOU
HAVE TO ADMIRE THE STRENGTH
OF THESE PARENTS.
>> Ifill: AND OUR THOUGHTS
AND OUR PRAYERS ACTUALLY GO
OUT TO THESE FAMILIES AS WE
APPROACH THIS ANNIVERSARY.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN THEY A
COMPROMISED SPECIAL DEAL IN
EASING THE SPENDING CUTS AND
PREVENTEDDING FUTURE
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS.
NORTHKOREA ANNOUNCED KIM
JUNG-UN'S UNCLE AND FORMER
MENTOR HAS BEEN EXECUTED AS
A TRAITER.
AND PRO WESTERN REBELS IN
SYRIA URGED A RESUMPTION OF
NONLETHAL AID
THE U.S. AND BRITAIN CUT OFF THE
ASSISTANCE AFTER ISLAMIST
FIGHTERS CAPTURED THE STORAGE
WAREHOUSES.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE RIGHT NOW, WHAT WORLD
EVENT MEANT THE MOST TO YOU IN
2013?
WE REVISIT EIGHT DEFINING
MOMENTS COVERED IN DEPTH OVER
THE PAST YEAR ON THE NEWSHOUR,
AND WE WANT YOU TO WEIGH IN.
TELL US WHAT YOU THINK IN THE
COMMENTS SECTION.
AND WHAT DOES A CONCUSSION LOOK
LIKE INSIDE THE BRAIN?
ON OUR "SCIENCE" PAGE, WE
EXPLORE RESEARCH INTO THE
TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURIES THAT
ARE FREQUENTLY SUFFERED BY
ATHLETES AND SOLDIERS.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON FRIDAY, HOW FAR IS TOO FAR
FOR GOVERNMENT SPYING?
WE ASK A LEADING CRITIC.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING WITH MARK
SHIELDS AND MICHAEL GERSON.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.